>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Many of us have
wondered why, if
extraterrestrial life is real,
we don't hear about it.
More so, why don't
they show themselves?
As it turns out, there
are very complex reasons
behind both of those answers.
Richard Dolan has
devoted his skills
as a historian and journalist
to understanding those questions
and has gone a step further.
In his book "A.D.
After Disclosure,"
he weaves a likely
future scenario of ET
contact together
with historical fact.
The outcome is an
extremely thought
provoking look at the powers
that be both above and below.
I say that somewhat
metaphorically
since we tend to think
of ETs as out there.
But you have done an excellent
job putting it all together.
And I suppose my first question
would be-- you are a historian.
You know everything
about the presidents
of the United States
and other individuals.
How did you decide
to take on the notion
of the history of
UFOs and ET contact?
>>RICHARD DOLAN: Yes.
Well, first of all,
thank you for having me
on this show, Regina.
>>REGINA: Most welcome.
>>DOLAN: It's a real pleasure.
>>REGINA: My pleasure.
>>DOLAN: Many years ago,
I was working on a Ph.D.
in United States
Cold War history.
Basically, Harry Truman's
national security strategy
circa 1950.
And that was my life.
That was where my head was at.
Nothing to do with UFOs.
Nothing to do with
flying saucers.
But in the early 1990s,
I truly became hooked.
I would say obsessed would be
a better way to describe it.
And it was simply by
browsing through a bookstore,
seeing one particular book
called "Above Top Secret."
It was the subtitle
that got me, though.
"The Worldwide UFO Cover-Up."
By the author Timothy Good, with
whom I'm very good friends now.
But at the time, I knew
nothing about UFOs.
I was quite intrigued.
And I remember browsing through
the book, recognizing names.
Names that I had studied
in a very different context
as an academician.
And here they were in a
completely different context.
That is, a UFO context.
And this immediate
thought came to me,
and it wasn't are UFOs real.
I wasn't there yet.
I was interested in a
different question, which was,
is this actually part
of my country's history?
In other words,
were there, as it
appeared in this book,
high-level national security
figures who actually
were interested in this?
And if they were, even if it
was a mistake, why had I never
read about it in
any academic book?
How could that not
be interesting?
In what reality is
that not interesting?
And so I just set out
to really investigate
this on a personal basis.
I thought I'd take out
a couple of months,
resolve it for myself.
Everyone wonders at some point,
gee, is there a UFO cover-up?
And that's really
all it was for me.
And I just was tired of having
these vague claims in front
of me that maybe there
is and maybe there isn't.
I didn't like that because
the way that I am, if there's
one trait to describe me,
it's an insatiable curiosity.
It's almost a maniacal
curiosity about my world.
And I needed to know this.
So I just did what
I thought would
be standard type of research.
Find out what's the
standard bibliography,
the good books, the documents.
Well, that's when I got hooked,
because what I had discovered
early on was that yes,
this was something that
was taken seriously,
very seriously.
How do we know this?
Well, guess what?
In our nation's history, we had
a period of time, late 1970s,
particularly, when the
Freedom of Information Act
was really useful.
And in which we got
thousands of pages
of documents
pertaining to UFOs out.
And I'll tell you.
I mean, of those
confirmed documents,
you won't find this one document
that's the smoking gun that
says-- like a memo from
the president that says,
what we do about
these pesky aliens?
But if you look at the top
10, 20, 50 cumulatively--
this is an open and shut case
here-- the phenomenon was real.
They were showing craft
that were violating
sensitive airspace,
doing things that
were not supposed
to be possible.
And our generals, admirals,
CIA high-level officials
were concerned--
at the same time
that they were telling
the world nothing to it
So there's this
obvious discrepancy.
And once I saw that,
well, I was hooked.
I was absolutely hooked.
That's 20 years.
I've been working
this ever since.
>>REGINA: You've done
exhaustive research.
I think you're such a popular
guest on so many shows
because it's very hard to
argue with your findings
because you're not looking
for a specific point of view.
You're looking to
see what's real.
So you'll look, you'll check
both sides of the issues.
You don't necessarily just
take one person's testimony
as truth.
You'll go ahead and
check into the background
of the individual,
corroborate it.
So I just want to
say upfront you've
done a beautiful job
journalistically--
>>DOLAN: Thank you.
Thank you very much.
>>REGINA: --of
putting this together.
And that matters because it's
a subject that has a big giggle
factor to it, and
that's really unfair.
And not only that, I think
in this period of history,
it's to our disadvantage
to keep it in that box.
>>DOLAN: I could not agree more.
We're at a point
where, for a society
which is to have
freedom, a country that's
supposed to be a republic
on democratic principles,
if you do not have access
to your own history,
how can you possibly
make informed
decisions about your world?
And what has happened
regarding the UFO phenomenon,
unfortunately, is
that our history
has been stolen from us.
I mean, really.
And so one of the main
important missions of my life
is to reclaim, or to help us all
to reclaim that history, which
belongs to all of us.
>>REGINA: And before we
get into some of the really
where the whole thing began, in
the United States that set off
a chain, a series
of chain events
that really affects
us all to this day,
I want to ask you
one more question,
and that is why did you
approach this book, "A.D.
After Disclosure" in
this way where you're
weaving in a potential
future scenario with fact?
Why?
>>DOLAN: "A.D." is a
real departure for me.
I wrote two volumes of history,
each 5, 600 pages called
"UFOs and the National
Security State."
And as you said, this
is archival research,
interviews with
high level people.
Really putting together
responsible history.
"A.D After Disclosure,"
on the other hand,
is really a speculation
about the future.
Now, it's not a pie in
the sky speculation.
My co-author, Bryce Zabel and I
really set out as a think tank
to try to look forward
and to speculate
about something important.
Think of it this way.
If you assume UFOs
are real, and if you
assume that there's a
cover-up-- which I assume yes
in both of these-- then it's
really a logical question
to ask, well, gee, what happens
if that cover-up were to end.
Because really, one
of the big themes
in UFO research and the
related alternative community
is the idea of disclosure.
That is, we need disclosure.
We need the truth.
We're living a lie.
Let's get to the truth.
All of which I agree with.
But what I found in the
last decade of being
a public figure in this
field is that there's
a lot of talk about
disclosure and precious little
understanding of what
that actually would mean,
other than basic utopian
types of ideas like oh
yeah, free energy
and well, we'll
become one with the galactic
federation of light.
I mean, ideas that in my
view need a little bit
more substance behind them for
me to give them some credence.
And what I wanted to do was
to look at the UFO phenomenon
as a whole, really
understanding it.
And from that,
extrapolating out what
is likely to happen in
the event of disclosure.
And more than that, how the
heck can disclosure even happen?
I mean, those are really
two important issues.
And many people have
said, well, look.
Disclosure is never
going to happen, man,
because there's been secrecy
on this since the 1940s
and it's never been broken.
What makes you think
it's going to happen now?
So that's a valid question.
And that's something
that we address.
And then the whole rest of
this book, this exploration,
is in trying to
understand what next.
And writing that book was
a truly great adventure.
>>REGINA: I bet it was.
>>DOLAN: Every day we really
set out, thinking this through.
And what we realized is
that these issues really
had not been discussed by any
writers in the field, and we--
>>REGINA: I have not
seen anything like it.
And the reality is,
we say gee, what'll
happen once they--
well, they already
have flown over the capital.
That was a long time ago.
>>DOLAN: Yes, that's right.
>>REGINA: I mean,
that's already happened.
These things have
already happened.
But what happens once
it's finally acknowledged?
No one ever thinks
about what happens
and what is affected,
right down to markets,
global financial markets,
and many other things
which we'll get
to a little later.
I want to get to the
case and the science
that you've woven in here
because first of all,
you're talking about
disclosure, after disclosure.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
There was a disclosure.
And we know that there
was that disclosure.
Steven Greer's effort,
National Press Club.
>>DOLAN: The Disclosure Project.
>>REGINA: The
Disclosure Project.
And I'm saying this was
an impressive effort.
I was there.
>>DOLAN: You were, yeah.
>>DOLAN: I was there.
I had access to the
various people testifying.
I saw them behind the scenes.
And I saw men who had broken
their national security
oaths to show up and do this who
were in tears because they had
held onto this fear for so long
of what would happen to them
and their family if
they ever talked openly.
And they did.
And I heard-- well,
you know of much of it.
Some of it is even in this book.
Some of the incidences that they
spoke about are in this book.
And yet, you had maybe two
ti-- the room was packed.
>>DOLAN: Right.
>>REGINA: Huge online audience.
Largest audience since
Monica Lewinsky's blue dress
at that time.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
Right.
>>REGINA: It was the second
largest audience ever.
That was a big audience.
>>DOLAN: Oh yeah.
>>REGINA: And yet nothing.
Nothing on American television.
>>DOLAN: No, correct.
Exactly.
It just was a big fat zero.
>>REGINA: So it's not as though
there haven't been efforts.
But the thing is, it has to
be forced to such an extent.
And now let's take it back
to where a lot of this
really started, at least
the US part of the story.
Different in Germany
and the Soviet Union.
But let's start at Roswell.
>>DOLAN: Well, Roswell
is, in a lot of ways,
where it's appropriate
to start there.
Something happened at Roswell.
Something very, very important.
Look, to this day
there are multiple-- I
was going to say
two, but really there
are more than two sides
of the Roswell debate.
There's lots of nuance in this.
I do come down on the side
that there was an event,
let's call it extraterrestrial.
Maybe it wasn't.
It wasn't us.
That's what I will say.
In the book "A.D."
Bryce and I use the
phrase the others
because I don't
really know that they
are truly extraterrestrial.
I think that they are.
What happened at Roswell is that
during the height of the flying
saucer wave that was
overtaking the United States--
it was a big, big, lots
of talk about this.
In the midst of that, the
United States Army Air Force
stated to the world
that they had recovered
one of those flying discs
outside Roswell, New Mexico.
And then three hours later,
retracted the whole thing
and said oh, no, sorry.
Just a weather balloon.
Sorry for the confusion.
And then that story
was-- died for 30 years
until it was resurrected
by a number of researchers
who found some of the
original witnesses.
Roswell, I think,
absolutely happened,
and I think it's a
good starting point.
So let's just say that it did.
So you're the President
of United States.
You're Harry Truman.
And let's say I'm your top
general or scientific adviser.
And I will come to
you and say, sir,
we have recovered
technology that does not
appear to have been manufactured
by our civilization.
So that's really
where it starts.
So in other words,
you're being told
not simply that there are
these objects out there,
but that we got some
of that technology.
So you've got this heavy-duty
decision to think about.
What do you do?
Do you tell the world?
It's quite possible
that your instinct
might have been the
world should know.
But then you think about it.
Or your advisers, like me, who
would talk to you about it.
And you would
realize that if you
told the world you had
this exotic technology,
then it becomes very
difficult not to share it.
>>REGINA: Well, I was just
going to bring that up.
>>DOLAN: Not to share it.
>>REGINA: That's one
big incentive, yes.
>>DOLAN: I mean,
after all, you've
got the incipient
Cold War taking place.
The Soviet Union and the United
States were not friendly.
And then other
nations in the world.
Maybe you don't
want to share this.
And the other thing is it's
very likely that they would not
have had a whole lot of
information about who
these other beings were anyway.
You're going to go tell
the world about this.
And then you're going to have
to answer a lot of questions.
You may not have
the information.
So what would do
logically, and I
think this is-- all of
the leaked documents,
the majestic documents is what
we call, do indicate this.
I think this is true.
You'd gather together
your most reliable people.
And you would say,
all right, folks,
we're going to figure this out.
Each person is going
to have their job.
You're going to figure
out-- let's study
the technology, what
we can do with it.
You're going to figure out
how bad the panic might be
and how we'll contain it.
You're going to
manage the press.
You're going to deal with
the academic community.
We're going to keep this
whole thing contained.
And all of these
logical things I think
is exactly what they did.
And here's the thing, though.
You might say we'll revisit
this in a couple of years
and decide on our game plan.
But, see, secrecy.
Once secrecy like
this gets started,
I think it becomes very
difficult to stop that secret
because the deeper you go,
the more difficult it becomes.
For example, the technology.
Let's say, all right.
So you've got some various
pieces of alien tech.
How do you study them?
Well, the Army and the military,
they've got smart people.
But realistically,
they're going to go
to various private laboratories,
various private contractors--
Lockheed, General Electric,
Boeing, and so forth.
Those are the organizations
that actually have the ability
not just to study this stuff,
but maybe to replicate it.
They've got the engineers.
They've got the facilities.
So the technology goes out.
And the question it
becomes, who owns it?
There's an interesting question.
I assume that the
lawyers privately,
covertly hammered all that out.
Maybe a little bit private,
maybe a little bit government.
But the thing is, now
a few more years go by
and now scientists start
having little mini eureka
moments where they start
figuring things out.
Maybe not completely
duplicating every single aspect
of the electromagnetic
properties of this object.
But maybe they can
have some good ideas
that lead to other
breakthroughs, things
like fiber optics or
high tensile fiber or--
>>REGINA: Let's go there because
that's an advance in the story.
Now you're leaping forward
about 13, 14 years, by 1961.
Now, this is according
to-- I appreciate
the work of Philip Corso.
And so his claim is
that as a person that
was working for the
Foreign Technologies
Division of the Army-- and that
doesn't mean out of country,
it means out of this world.
Foreign technology,
unknown technologies.
He was given scraps of the
materials of the evidence that
had been gathered and scooped
up now 13, 14 years prior.
And they're now saying maybe it
was that the industrial complex
wasn't really ready for it.
Maybe there had to be a certain
kind of critical understanding.
I don't know.
But it was years.
Years passed before he
was given those pieces
to have analyzed and parted out.
>>DOLAN: I have a number
of thoughts on Corso.
I mean, he's been a
very contentious figure
among UFO researchers.
There have been a lot
of errors in the book
that he co-authored with
William Burns, called "The Day
After Roswell."
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DOLAN: The thing
is, I fundamentally
do think that Corso is
correct or was truthful.
The problem is that
a lot in that book--
his original notes
were actually not
nearly as polished as the book.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DOLAN: A lot ot it
was kind of haphazard.
>>REGINA: That is true.
>>DOLAN: And it's also true
that Corso, who was US Army,
was only one, one aspect of the
whole Roswell technology thing.
And he had no way of
knowing, of course,
about the other things
that were going on.
So people have said,
well, it took 13 years
for this technology
to get out there.
I doubt that's the case.
I think more likely is that
other agencies had access
to other types of technology
and that it was already out
>>REGINA: That's just
when they dumped it off
on him and his office.
>>DOLAN: That's correct.
His aspect of it alone.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DOLAN: Now, he
described something
that I think is very plausible
and actually that I think
is true, which is that he
was a liaison, essentially,
between the US military and
these private contractors.
And this was exactly his point.
All I can say is that
I never met Corso.
He died shortly before I kind
of got out here in this field.
I know a number of people
who did know Philip Corso.
I've never met anyone
who knew him well
who thought that he was lying.
Now, it's very
likely that he may
have had a fuzzy memory on
this, that, or the other thing.
There certainly, as
I say, were mistakes.
Certain factual
mistakes in his book.
>>DOLAN: But if you just stick
to the basic stuff, which
is the pieces of tech,
that's where he really
focused because he said he
felt like a child at Christmas
when they dumped
this file cabinet off
with this strange debris in it.
He was sitting on the floor
in his home looking at it.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: Why do I even,
where do I even take this?
How do I even begin?
And so that seemed to be
fairly electrically wired
into his mind, that
part, it seems to me.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, I think
that's reasonable.
Yeah, that's reasonable.
>>REGINA: I mean now,
again, he's not alive,
so it's hard to say.
But we're talking about
technology that ultimately
became widely used in the '60s.
Transistors.
Remember?
Everybody had their
little transistor radios.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
That's right.
>>REGINA: And that all
came out in the '60s.
It was supposedly transistors.
Kevlar used for police
protection and their vests.
And fiber optics.
>>DOLAN: Yes, exactly.
Right.
>>REGINA: Lasers.
All these things he claims
came out of Roswell.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
He does.
And to me, I think that that's
very likely the case, actually.
Now, if you look at
the history of each one
of those technologies,
you're not
going to find a
reference to Roswell.
>>REGINA: No, of course not.
>>DOLAN: And so mainstream
historians of technology
will say, well,
that's just nonsense
because you can trace these.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DOLAN: But here's the
thing is, all right?
What Corso says actually does
not contradict any of that.
He's just adding another piece.
He's stating that
key concepts came
to these various corporations
via the Roswell connection.
And of course, we
have to keep in mind
it's not like these corporations
are just going to say,
"Oh yeah, well, we
got it from Roswell."
>>REGINA: Of course not.
>>DOLAN: And this
was back when I
was talking a little earlier
about the money going
privately.
Once you start getting
breakthroughs, all right?
There goes any incentive
for giving this secret up
because now you've
got a moneymaker.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>DOLAN: You've got this
goose that lays golden eggs.
And really, what would
be your incentive
for telling the world?
Let's say I'm the
Air Force or the Army
and you're a private contractor.
So I've ceded some of
this technology to you.
So you guys have control of it.
Maybe after I retire, I get to
work for you as a senior vice
president, because that's really
how the whole thing worked.
So it's a nice little
happy family here.
We have no desire whatsoever
to give this secret up.
And what we see further
is very good evidence
that the operational power, the
executive decision-making power
over the UFO cover-up slipped
away from the United States
President very likely
even during the Eisenhower
administration, and
certainly increasingly
through the subsequent years.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
And so now we're not talking
about just technology here.
Corso said that he was allowed
to see one of the bodies that
was suspended in a type of
formaldehyde or something
like this.
And he seemed to be-- well,
in his writing, anyway--
very shaken over this.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Totally
freaked him out,
and didn't know if he wanted
to even go any further on it.
He is not the only
one who claims
to have seen the body of
the what is essentially
a little gray type of being
similar to what we're seeing
on the screen right now, yes.
>>DOLAN: He says he saw
it at Fort Riley, Kansas.
He has a very detailed story
about how that happened.
Again, I don't know if
this will ever be proven.
I don't think it can be
proven one way or the other.
But I don't see
it as impossible.
Yes, I think it is possible.
I have a hard time
thinking-- but that's not
something you'd misremember.
>>REGINA: No.
>>DOLAN: So if you
saw an ET being,
you're going to remember that.
>>REGINA: Either he's
lying or he saw it.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
And the thing about
Corso people ought
to remember is that he had
a very, very good reputation
amongst colleagues
in the military.
Senator Strom Thurmond, for
whom he was a military liaison,
wrote the original
forward to Corso's book.
This was before Thurmond knew
it was a UFO type of book,
and that forward was taken out.
I have the original copy.
>>REGINA: Just
validating his character.
>>DOLAN: He said, look, Philip
Corso's an American hero,
and praised him to the skies.
Corso had a very good reputation
within the United States
Congress for other
types of testimony
he'd given on other matters.
He was a known figure who did
have the respect of people.
>>REGINA: Well, that's why I
wanted to bring him up and get
all the technologies, the
little alien body, everything
out on the table
at the same time
through part of the
cover-up operation.
I've interviewed
other people, read
a lot of documents about
people who were threatened
if they were to
speak of the event.
And I'm talking about
witnesses in Roswell.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: There is no
shortage of stories of people.
Now, most of them are dead.
>>DOLAN: That's correct.
>>REGINA: But many, many people
finally came forward and said,
we couldn't talk about it.
They threatened our lives.
OK.
>>DOLAN: No.
And in "A.D. After
Disclosure," Bryce
and I recounted the story
of one such witness.
She was a young girl
at the time and talked.
And this interview just
took place a couple of years
ago, when we were
writing the book.
She was very shaken
over-- she was told,
you know, if you
talk about this,
we'll take you out to the desert
and no one will ever find you.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DOLAN: She was, like,
a 10, 11-year-old girl.
And the officer
who told her, says,
"You did not see that material."
And she's thinking,
well, no, I did see it.
He says, "You're not hearing me.
You did not see that material."
And he had to repeat it, like,
three or four times until she
finally got it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And this happened to everyone
who was witness to it.
And there were
quite a few of them.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
These stories, they are the
typical Roswell witness story.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And the reason this is
so important in my mind--
and I wanted to start at Roswell
rather than anywhere else--
is because after
that, you started
seeing the establishing
of some agencies.
>>DOLAN: Yep.
>>REGINA: Many feel that
this was in direct response
to the UFO issue.
How you start
classifying documents.
How you start intimidating
people into shutting up.
Here we have the beginning
of, as I recall, the NSA.
Shortly after that, the CIA.
You had Project Blue
Book and a lot of these.
All of this led
to the suppression
of information moving
outward toward the public.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
The CIA was formed in 1947.
It grew out of some earlier--
it grew out of the OSS
from World War II, ultimately,
and then evolved into the CIA
by 1947.
1947 was what we have the
National Security Act.
It established an
independent air force,
CIA, National Security Council.
It really created
the modern structure.
A couple of years
after that-- actually,
at the end of
Truman's presidency--
we have the formal
creation, secretly,
of the National Security Agency.
Do you realize nobody
knew about the NSA
literally for over a
decade of its existence?
And it was the most
powerful intelligence agency
in the country.
And nobody knew it existed
until the mid-1960s.
By that time, NSA had by far
the best computers in the world.
And it was this
totally secret agency.
Tells you something
about America's history.
>>REGINA: And remains so.
We have so many
black ops projects
that are controlled
by that agency.
Here we have these, what is it?
What was it? $3.7 trillion.
Correct me if I'm
wrong on the math.
Just a couple of years ago,
a few years ago, Rumsfeld
was having to answer for this--
>>DOLAN: Close.
He said 2.6--
>>REGINA: 2.6.
>>DOLAN: Then amended to 2.3.
>>REGINA: $2.3 trillion
of missing funds, OK?
And we know that a lot of
that is swallowed up now.
I mean, the evidence
seems pretty clear.
A lot of that has
been swallowed up
by this, the NSA and these
black operations budgets.
>>DOLAN: Right.
This has been my argument
for some time also.
During the '90s, during
the Clinton administration,
there was a law that was
enacted that essentially forced
or mandated the US
government to account
for its money in a more
businesslike manner.
And from that point,
Rumsfeld's statement
was actually the
last in a series.
Through the '90s, there
were these various reports
from the Senate and Congress.
$1.1 trillion missing,
you know, $1.5 trillion.
>>REGINA: How do you
misplace trillions?
>>DOLAN: Right.
Well, the way that
the official explana--
because I tried
figuring this out.
Because in Rumsfeld's case,
he made this statement just
before 9/11/2001.
The Pentagon's
budget at that time
was about one
eighth that amount.
It was about $310 billion.
So how do you lose seven or
eight times your annual budget?
It makes no sense.
>>REGINA: Oh, he rectified it.
>>DOLAN: They said they did.
>>REGINA: I know,
I'm teasing you.
>>DOLAN: Which was funny.
>>REGINA: I know
they said they did.
>>DOLAN: What they say
is that, well, these
were accounting discrepancies.
And in fact, there's a lot,
hundreds of accounting systems,
computerized systems.
And in reconciling,
there was all this money,
they said, no, no,
it wasn't all stolen.
But in fact, a lot
of it was stolen.
And then the clincher is
a couple of years later,
they said, oh yeah, well, we got
that number from 2.6 trillion
down to zero.
We've resolved all of it.
Now, that's where I'm just out.
That's like a student who gets
an F. And instead of changing
his grade to a D,
which is believable,
he changes it to an A.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>DOLAN: There's
just some general
that says I want
that number to zero.
And you know that's
what they did.
>>REGINA: But the thing is,
it's taking the people for being
super ignorant, all of
us for being ignorant.
And that has been something that
they have been perpetrating--
and in a sense,
in some cases even
relying on now--
for several decades.
And we're going to take a
break in just a minute here.
But when we come back, I want
to talk about the Condon Report.
OK?
We can talk about
the Condon Report.
>>DOLAN: Yes, by all means.
>>REGINA: And then in
opposition to that,
what the French finally came
out with in trying to genuinely
reveal some of what was going on
behind extraterrestrial contact
and UFOs.
So meanwhile, we're going
to take just a short break.
Stay with us.
We'll be back in just a sec.
We are back with Richard Dolan.
And let's talk about
the Condon Report,
because there was
supposedly an attempt
to put all the
evidence together--
>>DOLAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: --and
then release that
to the public to
some satisfaction.
But that's not what
really happened.
>>DOLAN: It's very
important, actually,
that people understand this.
Through the 1950s and '60s,
the United States Air Force
was officially responsible,
in the public's eyes,
for investigating UFO reports,
which actually today there's
no agency in the
government that does this.
But in the '50s and
'60s, if you saw
what you thought
might be a UFO-- hey,
you didn't have to
believe it was a real UFO,
but you could do
your patriotic duty
and report it to the Air Force.
And in theory, they
had this project
called Blue Book that would
looking into the reports.
Well, the problem
was that A, there
were a lot of UFO reports.
Blue Book really did not
have a lot of credibility.
People were making jokes.
You know, the Air
Force's explanations
were ridiculous
in so many cases.
People had been talking about
swamp gas as an explanation.
It was a big joke.
So the Air Force is thinking,
we got to get rid of this.
We got to get rid of this.
So they looked around,
and they contracted
with the University
of Colorado in 1966.
And they said, OK.
You guys are going to do
a scientific investigation
of UFOs.
And whatever you say,
we will abide by it.
And if you recommend that
we continue studying UFOs,
we will.
If you recommend we
discontinue, we'll do that.
The thing was, that whole
thing was a rigged game.
Totally rigged game.
The Condon Report's called that
because the Colorado project
was led by a physicist
named Edward Condon.
It's absolutely slam dunk.
Condon and his
number one assistant,
a guy named Robert
Lowe, were both dead set
against, from the beginning,
any kind of pro-UFO conclusion.
In fact, we know from one of the
members of the committee Condon
said privately, if we were to
get an affirmative conclusion,
he said, that's not
going to the public.
That's going in a locked
briefcase to the president.
There was no way
this was ever going
to be a positive conclusion.
The funny thing about
the Condon Report
is despite Condon's very
negative conclusion, which
came out in 1969, beginning
of '69, within the report
were actually many, many
incredibly unexplainable cases.
But Condon just ignored that.
He said, nope.
No probative value.
In other words, UFOs offer
us no value scientifically.
Air Force should drop it.
Air Force did drop Blue Book.
And ever since then,
you and me and the rest
of the American public has no
agency within the government
to report a UFO to.
And that's important.
People could say that Blue
Book was a joke, which it was.
But you know what?
I say it was our joke.
And the fact that there
is no government agency
now tells me that this
important phenomenon, which
affects everyone-- it really
does-- has been removed.
Our government has broken
away from us on this.
And we have no way of getting
our government, which we're
supposed to be in charge
of, to respond to this.
So it's really, it's a
failure of democratic rule.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
Now let's juxtapose that to the
COMETA Report out of France.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
Well, that's a very
interesting thing.
In the 1990s, late
'90s, in France,
you have a number of very
high-level French government
and military officials.
It was a kind of
an official study
and kind of an unofficial study.
And the reason they do
this is for deniability.
And in this case, it
was not hard to see why,
because you had a detailed
scientific analysis of UFOs
called the COMETA Report,
in which they said
this is some really serious
stuff going on here, which
looks like it's
extraterrestrial.
We have cases in our
files that are utterly
inexplicable from any
conventional point of view.
Science needs to investigate.
So the exact opposite conclusion
of the Condon Committee.
And the COMETA Report,
it's extremely well done.
And it got little
to no resonance
within the United States media.
US media just let it go.
A little byline in
the "New York Times"
and that was the end of it.
So no follow-up.
>>REGINA: And it's
not just France.
We also have Mexico, Brazil,
Russia, other countries
who have made a
legitimate effort
to look into the phenomena.
>>DOLAN: They've made
an effort and they've
made various
statements that have
been very interesting indeed.
>>REGINA: Yes, they have.
So US is unique in this
way, that we're really
holding on to this
denial of the subject.
>>DOLAN: To some extent.
The other nations
have always stopped
short of the
ultimate disclosure.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
>>DOLAN: None of them have said
it looks like it's-- we are
telling you that it's
extraterrestrial.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>DOLAN: They've not done that.
>>REGINA: No, they
haven't done that.
They've stopped short.
But at least they've thrown
the people a bone or two.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
>>REGINA: And some
significant bones,
such as in the COMETA Report.
>>DOLAN: That's exactly right.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now that we're
looking at that,
we need to go back a little bit.
Here you have all this
exotic technology.
Much of it made
its way to market
and we've been using
it for decades now.
But much of it never did.
They continued developing.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: They continued
research and development
to a very high extent,
to the point where--
I think you comment in
your book that there
was a quote by someone stating
that the technology that
has been developed since
then, in black ops,
is 50 to 100 years advanced
of anything that we,
the citizenry, will ever
benefit from or see.
>>DOLAN: I think
that's exactly right.
>>REGINA: Now, you also call
this a breakaway civilization.
Let's get into it.
Just tell us about that.
>>DOLAN: The
breakaway civilization
is an idea that I've been
working for a number of years.
And it's a phrase that
I coined in, actually,
an earlier book, my
second volume of history,
but really expanded and
worked in this book, "A.D.
After Disclosure."
And the idea is-- you sort
of introduced it very well
a moment ago.
So let's say you've
got this technology.
It's being studied.
Some of the
applications are going
to be money makers for sure,
into commercial ventures
and everyone's happy.
It's win-win, right?
But let's say in the
classified world,
certain breakthroughs are made
that are really significant.
Let's say breakthroughs
that might threaten
the dominance of the
petroleum industry.
Because even a
10-year-old looking
at a flying saucer or
these exotic objects,
they're going to
realize that they're not
using jet fuel or gasoline.
They're using something
better than that.
whatever that
source of energy is,
whether it's-- some people have
talked about zero-point energy.
Or even something as relatively
mundane as controlled clean
nuclear fusion, which we do not
yet have, but may happen down
the road, or something else.
Whatever it is, we're
not using it now.
And the implication
is very profound
because it would threaten to
unseat the world's largest
industry.
>>REGINA: Oil.
>>DOLAN: And when we look at
oil and all of its subsidiaries,
that's a really
huge thing to do.
And so let's say I'm a
scientist working on this
and we figure this out.
You, who might be my boss,
would say, OK, good job.
We're not going to have this one
come out because we're not yet
ready to take down the
petroleum industry.
So keep working on it, and
let's see what you got.
And I think that's
exactly what's happened.
There's been a tremendous
amount of leaked material
over the years, some
of which I have gotten
through my own research, that
indicates this is the case.
So if it's the
case, what it looks
like is that for a
number of years, probably
decades and generations,
the black budget world
has been developing vastly
superior technology.
I mean, think about
how science goes.
>>REGINA: Back to supercomputing
just as one beginning place.
>>DOLAN: Well, here's
a story I can tell you.
In fact, I include it here.
One of the individuals
that I got to interview
was a former NSA scientist, and
we mentioned the NSA earlier.
In the mid '60s, this man was
a civilian engineer for them.
Just said to me that NSA
computing in 1964, '65,
they had clock speeds
running at 650 megahertz.
Now, today that's no big deal.
That's chump change today.
>>REGINA: Yeah, but
this was 50 years ago.
>>DOLAN: 1965.
First of all, there were no
personal computers in 1965.
Secondly, the consumer
market did not
reach that clock speed
'til around the year 2000,
about 35 years later.
So on that basis, you could
say they were 35 years ahead.
Now, that's just one example.
If you got something
as exotic as ET tech,
I think we can
assume they're going
to be even moving
farther ahead as well.
Let's talk flying saucers.
Homemade craft.
There's many, many
reasons to credit
this idea I think, for example,
the black triangles that
many people are seeing are
such craft that are operating
on principles we would
call electrogravitics.
Things that are beyond
our current transportation
paradigm, our current
energy paradigm.
But they can't be shared with
the rest of the world, at least
in the opinion of
those guys in charge,
because it would
be too disruptive.
So they're working
it themselves.
So here's where a breakaway
civilization comes in.
I mean, ask yourself
what is it that
characterizes a
separate civilization.
It's not something that
you can really quantify,
but I would say technology.
I would say social
interactions, how
they interact with
themselves and outsiders.
And I would also say cosmology.
That is, one's understanding
of one's place in the universe
and so forth.
And I would suggest that within
this deeply classified world,
and all of those
factors, we are talking
about a separate civilization.
If we were in that
world, for example,
we would have knowledge of
highly exotic propulsion
technology, energy sources and
so forth, which we could not
share with anyone.
We would therefore
probably have technology
that could take us off planet.
We might in fact have
a lot of knowledge
that the other people don't
have on the nature of who
these other beings are.
>>REGINA: It might be in
collusion or cooperation
with them.
>>DOLAN: Sure, yes.
That's very possible in my view.
So all of these
things would give us
a completely
different worldview.
And imagine how
difficult it might
be for us to have
family reunions, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DOLAN: A lot of these things.
But I think this is
a real situation.
So we would be part
of what I would
say is a separate civilization.
One that has broken away from
the main civilization, hence
the phrase breakaway
civilization.
And I think that
this is a real part
of the whole
structure of secrecy.
It's a part of the picture.
>>REGINA: And doesn't
that fold into it
people at very high levels
of government as well?
It isn't just black ops.
Theoretically or
supposedly, there
are many high-level
politicos and so forth that
are also included in this
breakaway civilization--
at least have enough
knowledge that they have
a different view of what their
future holds for them to what
we have for ourselves
at this moment.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, I
would agree with that.
I think not all, but
some political leaders--
>>REGINA: Some.
>>DOLAN: --are brought into it.
We have to understand.
I think many of the listeners
of Gaiam TV do get this.
But a lot of the
rest of the world
really needs to
understand that what
we call our political process
is really just all for show,
and the real power
is behind that.
Does anyone really think
that the US president
is the guy in charge?
Really?
>>REGINA: No.
>>DOLAN: No.
We all think that--
>>REGINA: No, it's been awhile.
>>DOLAN: So the other
question is who is behind it?
Well, we're talking about
financial powers and a lot
of other things
behind the scenes
who select the president.
Forget the idea of election.
>>REGINA: Actually, I had
a conversation one evening
in Laughlin, in Nevada--
this was probably
2001-- with someone
we both know who
is a highly credible individual.
I think I can say his
name, Daniel Sheehan.
>>DOLAN: Oh yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DOLAN: I know
Daniel very well.
>>REGINA: He was
explaining to me
who was going to be the nominee
in the next presidential
election.
This was three years out.
And he was right on.
He told me why.
He said this is what happened.
When Gore made the decision
he made on his vice
presidential running
mate, he basically
went against the system.
He's out.
Nothing will ever
come of that man.
He's finished.
He's toast.
And then he told
me that Kerry would
be the nominee in
the next election.
I said, Daniel, that's
three years from now.
He said, my dear, you
don't think people actually
have a choice in
this stuff, do you?
And that was my
education the first time
in how things really work.
>>DOLAN: Kerry seemingly
came out of nowhere.
>>REGINA: He seemingly
But no, he had been
groomed all along.
He was supposed to be the vice
presidential choice of Gore.
And then things might have
done differently for Gore also.
>>DOLAN: Well, that's
quite interesting indeed.
>>REGINA: It is interesting.
So that's when I-- yeah.
I was no longer naive
about politics after that.
>>DOLAN: You know, with Kerry
and Bush in '04, I said, well,
you've got skull versus bones.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DOLAN: They're
both Skull and Bones.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>DOLAN: They're both
part of the same club.
Did it really matter
who's going to get in?
>>REGINA: Right.So
we know that there
are handlers beyond all of this.
And these are people
that are included
in what you call this
breakaway civilization.
And we're talking
about technologies
that I've seen the drawings for.
Mark McCandlish, I think you
write about him in your book.
>>DOLAN: Yes, indeed.
>>REGINA: And I had
seen his presentations.
I've seen his
drawings, and what he
had witnessed by
way of what appears
to be alien craft that
is made in the USA.
>>DOLAN: Important story.
Now, Mark is a
aerospace illustrator.
>>REGINA: Yes
>>DOLAN: He's a first
rate illustrator.
And had a very close
friend who was also
in the aerospace
industry, smart guy.
And they were going to go
to an air show together.
Mark couldn't do it
at the last minute.
He had a deadline to write.
So this guy went with a powerful
friend, a friend of his family.
Top-level guy.
We've never known
his name to this day.
But up, up, up, up high level.
So they go to an
air show at the--
what was going to be
at Norton Airfield.
And they actually took
up a private flight
to Lockheed's Helendale
facility where,
according to this friend, who
described in detail to Mark,
saw, among other things,
three hovering-- well,
they looked like flying
saucers in a huge hangar
with a lot of guys
with M-16 machine guns.
And a general, a
four-star general,
at a display discussing
these and referring to them
as the Alien
Reproduction Vehicles,
ARVs, describing how
they had actually
gone throughout the
solar system by then.
This is 1988.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>DOLAN: 1988.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
25 years ago, nearly.
>>DOLAN: That's right.
That air show was
held, it's believed,
because George Bush had
just been elected president.
It was against Dukakis.
>>REGINA: Very interesting.
>>DOLAN: And they had
a reason, they felt,
that they could do this.
>>REGINA: Well, I
found it fascinating
because he was such a
top notch illustrator,
he was able to come back and
he memorized every feature
he could, captured
that, and then of course
he later was sharing that.
By the time the Disclosure
Project came around,
he was going public about it.
>>DOLAN: That's correct.
>>REGINA: Now with all
of this, everything
that we're talking
about, still most people
think that this is fairy tales.
>>DOLAN: Yeah, or--
>>DOLAN: I mean,
a lot of people do
think there are probably
are other civilizations,
but that a lot of the
sightings are fairy tales,
that they're doctored
video, that they're
doctored film, and so forth.
But the reality is there has
been a very concerted effort
to see to it that we
all feel that way.
>>DOLAN: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: That we all
giggle this one down.
I'm going to read from your
book, if you don't mind.
We're going to talk about
some of the news and media
outlets that are completely
run by Intelligence.
>>DOLAN: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Do you
mind if I go ahead?
>>DOLAN: Please.
>>REGINA: It says--
and I'll read
at the beginning
of the paragraph--
"Even a partial list of the
participating organizations
is breathtaking: The New
York Times, The Washington
Post, The Christian Science
Monitor, The New York Herald
Tribune, Saturday Evening
Post, Miami Herald, Hearst
newspapers, Scripps Howard
newspapers, Time Life, Reuters,
Associated Press,
United Press, CBS.
In addition to these, the
CIA own many newspapers
and publishing houses overseas."
>>DOLAN: Exactly.
And that refers--
>>REGINA: That's why we
don't know what's going on.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
In 1977, the journalist Carl
Bernstein of Watergate fame--
he was one of the
Watergate investigators--
did a scoop for
Rolling Stone magazine
in which he described how
the CIA-- and this was
a conservative estimate by him--
the CIA had employed secretly
at least 400
American journalists,
top-level journalists,
through the 1940s,
'50s, and '60s, the
Cold War era, who
were working for the CIA
without anybody else knowing.
And what that meant
was they took it
on as patriotic Americans in
the context of the Cold War.
And the CIA then said, well, we
weren't controlling the news.
But think about
what you could do
or what I could do if we had
400 journalists at the highest
levels of America's media
working for us covertly.
Could we control everything?
Maybe not.
But could we influence a lot?
Of course.
Could we kill certain stories?
Could we promote other stories?
Could we even put
in fake stories?
All of that.
And all of that happened.
So Bernstein came out with
this article in 1977, OK?
And the CIA said,
well, that's true,
but we don't do that anymore.
But they said was
like a lawyer would
say-- we do not engage
in those types of paid
relationships with
journalists anymore.
So really, they--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
>>REGINA: Anymore.
Anymore was the operative word.
At least they
admitted that much.
>>DOLAN: The way it is
today is they don't need it.
Journalists jump over each
other to have a relationship
with the CIA for
military intelligence.
They all do.
It's a career maker.
So the US national
security community
dominates America's media.
I mean, it's tragic.
>>REGINA: This is really
critical for everyone
to understand.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: I can give you
one personal example.
When I was a young anchorwoman
doing the nightly news,
I remember one time
I was looking at,
I think it was Associated Press.
And a story had come over
about a sighting in Europe
that had come through Reuters.
And I thought, oh,
that's so exciting.
Many, many witnesses to
this, and including local law
enforcement and so forth.
I thought, we
should put this in.
Now, this was awhile ago.
This is the early
'80s, mid '80s.
And I was told, you're
not putting that in.
We don't do those stories.
>>DOLAN: Really?
>>REGINA: And that was at
a-- just a local news anchor.
>>DOLAN: They said
no UFO stories?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
We don't do those stories.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
This is very, very typical
within journalistic culture.
It could be that there was an
explicit order from on high.
But it could also be that
the news director learned.
>>REGINA: He just didn't
want to-- yeah, he learned.
And also you have
issues with sponsors--
>>DOLAN: Can't get any.
>>REGINA: --pulling
their ads from your show
if you should do anything that
has a giggle factor associated
with it.
It could be that.
>>DOLAN: But the way
it's always worked
is-- and there's been some
very good academic studies
on this topic, of how
the CIA has influenced
the American academic community
and the American media.
And the way that they do it,
let's think about academia.
Simple.
It's not that they control
every professor, of course.
But they will have relationships
with the big shots,
like the people at Harvard and
Yale and UCLA and so forth.
So if some minor person
at some other school
gets this idea to research
UFOs, well then, sure.
One of the big dogs at Harvard
will just smack it right down.
And that is exactly
how it's happened.
So you create this culture
within the academic world
and within the
journalistic world, where
UFOs become the third
rail of your career.
And smart people who
want to a good career,
they learn this lesson.
And they internalize
this so that it really
becomes almost
self-policing after awhile.
It becomes part of the
culture of those institutions.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And since you
brought up Harvard,
I'd like to spend just a few
minutes looking at John Mack's
part because we both have
a great fondness-- I think
everyone had a great fondness
and respect for Dr. John Mack.
So if you'll tell us a little
bit about his background
and what his part
in the story was.
>>DOLAN: John Mac was a
Pulitzer Prize-winning author
and a professional psychologist
at Harvard University.
He was internationally renowned.
Who, in the late 1980s,
quietly started becoming
intrigued by reports of
alleged alien abduction.
Now, I mean, people talk
about UFOs being fringe.
Well, within that, abductions
are even more fringy as far
as mainstream goes.
But John Mack took it
seriously and just wanted
to know what was going on here.
Why would so many
people have this claim?
Was there something to it
or not and and so forth.
So he began quietly
looking into it.
By the early '90s, he was out.
He was out there.
And what Harvard
University tried to do
was, well, destroy him.
I mean, they literally
tried to destroy his career.
They tried to strip
him of tenure.
>>REGINA: That's where Danny
Sheehan comes back in again.
>>DOLAN: Danny Sheehan.
>>REGINA: Who had four, I think,
doctorate degrees, a master's
and three doctorates
from Harvard.
>>DOLAN: Danny's an
extraordinary guy.
>>REGINA: He's extraordinary.
He sued the university
on John's behalf.
>>DOLAN: And he succeeded
in defending John.
>>REGINA: Yes, he did.
>>DOLAN: And John Mack retained
his position at Harvard
until his death in the
early 21st century.
So yes, but John Mack was
the target of a vociferous,
really virulent, violent
campaign against him.
Not just by Harvard, but by
the entire American media.
I mean, Newsweek and Time
ridiculed him on and on and on.
>>REGINA: I know.
It was horrible.
>>DOLAN: And John Mack, I
had the honor and pleasure
of meeting him one time.
I was one of the new guys
in ufology at the time.
I've read his books and I
know many of his friends,
and I've seen him on video.
And you can see with
John Mack that this
was a brilliant man who
was also a good man.
>>REGINA: He was modest.
He was a gentleman.
I met him also in
a couple occasions.
Probably we were circling
around each other at that time.
>>DOLAN: And very,
a deep thinker.
>>REGINA: Amazing.
>>DOLAN: Yeah.
Serious about it.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
He took it very seriously.
He was respectful of the people.
He did not want to go
into that initially.
He was kind of cajoled into
it and thought all right,
I'll take a look at it.
And there you go.
He said yes.
And there were common themes
coming up in these stories.
And not all of it was negative.
I just want to cap that off.
Not all of these abductee
experiences were 100% negative.
Some of them had
this incredible sense
of opening in awe and so forth.
>>DOLAN: John Mack really
pioneered the whole idea
of abductions as--
because one thing
he noticed among
abductees, even when
they had a traumatic
experience-- now,
it has to be said.
A number of abductees
really have been seemingly
very negatively affected
by what happened.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
>>DOLAN: I know a number
of individuals where,
psychologically,
it didn't go well.
Not with everyone.
All right.
And one thing that John noticed
is that these experiences often
seem to trigger
transformative experiences
in these individuals.
>>REGINA: And
enhanced abilities.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
Enhanced abilities
intellectually, psychically,
and artistically,
and in every way.
Mathematically.
This has happened quite a lot.
So it was something
that he noted.
And his attitude was there's
something happening here
that may not all be negative.
Now, other of his
colleagues that he
was very close to-- Bud
Hopkins, for example,
who also recently
died, pointed out.
He said, well, look, John.
If the ETs are doing these
transformative experiences,
these guys didn't know
about it until you
started doing the regression.
So in a sense, it
wasn't the ETs.
Maybe it was you who
was helping them.
So, I mean, there's different
ways of looking at this.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>DOLAN: But John's
conclusion was
that it wasn't all
of a negative thing.
And that by going through
this type of transformation,
good things were happening.
And it has to also be said that
when you look at the abduction
experience, the way that
many people described it,
it wasn't like the
ETs were trying
to be jerks about
it necessarily.
>>DOLAN: Right.
They were functionaries.
>>DOLAN: They were doing things
that people found-- I mean,
they were helpless.
It was humiliating.
It was traumatic.
But there might be different
ways of interpreting it.
And that's what John
Mack tried to do.
>>REGINA: Yes, and
a beautiful job.
And it was very sad
the way that all ended.
But in any event, at least we
have his books for the record.
So I just wanted to
bring that piece up
because it is an
important piece of it.
>>DOLAN: Yes.
>>REGINA: Now let's go
forward, because we have not
gotten to the "A.D." portion
of this conversation.
>>DOLAN: Well, that's right.
>>REGINA: And we only have
maybe 5 or 10 minutes left.
So let's talk about how you see
with this-- with your partner,
how you see this playing
out in the future.
The most likely scenario.
>>DOLAN: The
adventure of writing
"A.D." was-- what we realized
is how profoundly our society is
likely to be affected
by disclosure.
So let's say an event happens.
The president is forced
to make a statement.
Well, you got a lot of things
coming up right off the bat.
First of all, some people
won't panic, some people will.
That's just human nature.
Some people will.
So there'll be a lot of fear.
People will want to
know are we safe.
There'll be all
of these questions
about who these
other beings are.
And that may not
be an easy thing
for a president or a
political leader to get into.
But one question that will
come up very quickly, I think,
will all be this
political blowback.
People will want to
know, wait a minute,
if this is real,
how the heck have
you kept this secret
all these years?
You've been lying
to us for 70 years.
Some people who have a
dog-like obedience to authority
will not care.
They'll say, well, the
president did what he had to do.
But not everyone's going
to take this lying down.
And they're going to
want to know, how did you
manipulate our media
all these years?
How did you manipulate
our academic institutions
and our political institutions?
And there's going to be
a lot of investigation
into this black budget culture.
There's going to be
investigations, I believe,
that will lead to this
breakaway civilization.
Once this is out on the table
as a valid topic of discourse,
it's really going to be
impossible to close that barn
door.
The horse is out.
And the question will then
be, how much information
is given out?
And it's not going
to be an easy thing
because you'll have
the secret keepers.
Yhey're not just
going to walk away
from the table after all these
years of investing themselves
in the secret.
They're going to want
to control the spin.
But the problem will be--
think of the Arab Spring.
Think of the Occupy
Wall Street phenomenon.
You're going to have a
lot of energized people.
And they're going to be angry.
And you're going to
have this battle.
And the political
leadership is going
to be caught in the
middle between keeping
the brakes on this and
responding somewhat
to the people.
Wackenhut Security might be
able to stop 10 or 20 people
from occupying Area 51, but
can they stop a million?
I don't know.
In other words, there's going
to be a lot of energized people.
And how that will all work
out, no one can predict.
I don't know.
But I think that's going
to be one important thing.
There's going to be a
massive democratic movement.
But that's only the beginning.
You're going to have a
culture-- think of the 1960s,
where people rebelled
against decades and lifetimes
worth of cultural norms in favor
of let's create something new.
I think that's going to happen
again with high technology.
The drugs will be there, too,
the hallucinogenics-- DMT,
ayahuasca.
This is already true
in the UFO subcultures,
where the belief is you
take some of these drugs
and it will open you up to these
other dimensions of reality.
You think that's
going to go away?
That will be enhanced.
That will be very important.
There'll be this whole
culture of people
who will say the old
way was based on lies,
and we're going to
create something new.
On the other hand,
there'll be the old guard,
the old conservatives.
And we'll have major
cultural divide here.
And all of this is
independent of what we learn,
who these other
beings are anyway.
>>REGINA: That's
an important one
because we talked about this
off camera a little bit.
The thinking is, they're
no different than we are.
There are many different
types of beings
who may have been
here, and visiting here
throughout the ages.
And some may have more of a
negative agenda, you might say.
Maybe something a little
more exploitative.
And I think that's what a
lot of the people who've
gone through alien
abductions feel that.
That it is more exploitative,
looking for DNA.
And you can argue, what
do we do to lab animals?
I mean, we do the same thing.
And then there are
other civilizations
who are considered to be
maybe more benevolent.
I mean, they say hey,
nothing's happened to us yet.
But there's a difference there
in terms of a prime directive,
of leave a developing
species alone.
So kind of a hands-off
approach there.
How do you see all this?
>>DOLAN: Well, this is
going to be a big mess.
It's going to be a big,
fat mess, because we
may get to the
point of disclosure
where we can prove
that they're here,
but we may not get
to the point where
we can grab one of these
beings and put them
at a podium next
to the president.
So we're going to be at a
very intermediary stage.
And it'll be unsatisfactory,
where there'll
be a lot of room
for argument here.
In my own judgment,
there are multiple groups
with multiple agendas.
And, you know, sorting
all of this out.
Knowing are we
going to get truth
from our political
leaders on this.
This is going to take a
long, long, long time.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>DOLAN: And it will not be
the easiest thing to sort out.
I do think ultimately it will.
But disclosure, you see,
is not the ultimate answer.
It's actually the
beginning of a new phase
in the struggle for truth.
>>REGINA: I couldn't
agree with you more.
And I really have to applaud
you for-- you put yourself
on the line.
Talk about being
subject to ridicule.
Anyone who's taken this
on up to this point
has been subject to ridicule.
Fortunately, you always come
out smelling like roses,
and it's because you've
done your homework.
>>DOLAN: I try to be careful.
>>REGINA: You do.
You try to be careful.
But you have done your homework.
And I certainly
encourage anybody
that is interested
in this subject,
you got to pick up a copy
of "A.D. After Disclosure."
And meanwhile, I want to thank
you so much for your time,
and for your energy, and
for all your hard work
and research, Richard.
It's been a pleasure
being here with you.
>>DOLAN: Same here, Regina.
I've loved it.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: However we choose
to relate to this information,
there is no doubt that a
great deal of time, planning,
and human resources have gone
into seeing that we do not
ask too many questions.
Furthermore, that
if we do or if we
should have our own experience,
we're made to look foolish.
My hope is that after today,
some of the giggle factor
will have been released
surrounding this object.
Until next time.
Thank you for joining
us here on Gaiam TV.